Title Card: Arthurs Eyes 
(zooms into Arthur's house, it is the middle of the night, A door opens, and a light shines on him)

Arthur Read: (gasp)
D.W.: (whispering): Come with me.
Arthur: Why?
D.W.: Shh. (whispering): It's about our lost brother!
Arthur: (whispering): We don't have a brother.
D.W.: (whispering): They're keeping him a secret! But I've seen him!
Arthur (to the audience): (whispering): Uh-oh! (Normally): Great.
(Arthur and D.W. come downstairs.)

(D.W.'s light pans over to a red book on a small table)
D.W. (whispering): Don't turn on- (Arthur turns light on) (quietly): -the light...
(Arthur turns off light)
(Arthur walks slowly over towards D.W.; D.W. opens the photo album. The look at pictures of a younger Arthur.)
D.W.: See? I wonder where he went. Mom and dad sold him or something.
Arthur: D.W., that's me!
D.W.: Is not!
Arthur: Is too!
D.W.: But you wear glasses!
Arthur: That's before I wore glasses.
D.W.: You were born with glasses!
Arthur: You were only two years old then, so you probably don't remember.
[Intertitle Shows]
(The rest of the episode takes place about year earlier. Arthur has no glasses and his friends are in Mr. Marco's class)

Mr. Marco: This quiz is to be completed in class. No talking! (He writes math problems on the blackboard.)
Arthur (squinting): That's a seven, right?
Francine Frensky: No, it's a two!
Arthur: That's a one?
Francine: No, it's a seven.
Arthur: That's a seven.
Francine: No Arthur, it's a nine, stop bothering me!
Mr. Marco: (clears throat) Ahem! Mm!
(Cut to: handing out test results)
Mr. Marco: These are your test results. Anybody with four or more mistakes should see me after class for extra homework.
(Francine has all questions right, but Arthur has them all wrong)
Francine: I guess math's not your best subject.
Arthur: I have a headache!
Buster Baxter: Yeah, sometimes Francine gives me a headache too.
Francine: (Offended, putting her head up with her eyes closed) Hmm!
(Scene switches to the gymnasium with Arthur and his friends are playing basketball. The ball goes right to Arthur, but he misses it so a yellow, medium-skinned monkey gets the ball and passes to Francine)

Arthur: Huh?
Francine's Team: Shoot!
(Francine shoots and scores)
(Buster has the ball on a breakaway)
(Buster passes to Arthur)
Buster: Arthur!
Arthur: Got it! No I don't.
(Arthur misses again, Sue Ellen gets the ball, passes to Francine)
Binky (in background): Go, go, go, go!
(Francine shoots it backwards with one hand and makes it)
(A rat blows whistle)
(Arthur has a free shot, but he is double-sighted)
Buster: Come on Arthur, you can do it!
(Arthur shoots and it goes over the net and into the lockers)
Buster: Aw, Arthur!
Francine: I guess basketball is just not your sport.

(A nurse is doing an eye test at school. The kids in one after the other, cover one eye and read the test chart with the other.)

Prunella Deegan: E, G, B, D!
Binky Barnes: E, G, B, D.
Sue Ellen Armstrong: E, G, B, D.
Arthur: (clears throat) M, P, 7, R, P, R. Oh, it's not a seven! Eight? Huh?
Francine: (Sing-song voice) Arthur's in trouble!
Muffy Crosswire: How do you get in trouble with the nurse?
(Everybody laughs)
Buster: What happened?
Arthur: I have to go to the eye doctor.

(Arthur has his eyes examined with a phoropter while his parents wait.)

Dr. Iris: What can you see?
Arthur: It's just blurry, Dr. Iris.
(Dr. Iris puts in another lens.)
Dr. Iris: Now what do you see?
Arthur: A giant worm!
Dave: Huh?
Jane Read: Where?
(A smiling caterpillar is on the lens, Dr. Iris takes the lens.)
Dr. Iris: Hmm.
(Dr. Iris puts the small caterpillar on a potted plant and puts the lens back in the phoropter.)
Dr. Iris: That better?
Arthur: Yeah, I can read it all!
Dr. Iris: You just need glasses, Arthur. That's why you've been getting those headaches.

(Arthur looks at a shelf with various glasses.)

Dr. Iris: All you have to do is choose the frames you like.
(Arthur puts on aviator glasses)
Arthur: Cool!
(Arthur briefly imagines himself standing in front of a jetfighter.)
(Arthur tries on rectangular glasses)
Arthur: Hmm. Woo. (He tilts his head and his pupils roll along the rim of the glasses.)
Jane: Those are nice.
Arthur: Maybe I'll try something else.
(Arthur puts on futuristic glasses. He imagines he is standing on Mars. Behind him an alien wearing the same kind of glasses looks out of a UFO. They wave at each other.)
(Arthur takes off the glasses and spots some round brown glasses.)
Arthur: Hey!
(As a triumphant fanfare plays, Dr. Iris reaches down for the glasses and puts them on Arthur)
Dr. Iris: There!
Jane: Those look wonderful, Arthur!
David: Very distinguished.
Arthur: Really?
(Arthur and his parents drive home from the eye doctor.)

Arthur (with better vision): Look at that airplane way up there! Look at all the leaves on the trees! Hey mom, you have gray hairs on your head! Dad, have you always had those bags under your eyes?
(The next day at school, Arthur is walking in the halls.)

Francine: Whoa! You look weird!
(Arthur is mad)
Binky: You look different! You get a new haircut?
Arthur: No!!
(School bell rings. Arthur walks into the classroom.
Francine: Hey Buster, look! (Pointing at Arthur) Arthur's a four eyes! (Sing-song voice) Arthur's a four eyes! Arthur's a four eyes! Arthur's a four eyes!
(Everybody laughs except Buster and Arthur)
Buster: Some people need glasses to see, Francine. Big deal!
(In the school cafeteria Buster holds two drinking glasses in front of his eyes.)

Buster: Hey, look you guys, I'm Arthur!
(Everybody laughs)
Arthur: Huh?
Buster: (ears droop) Oh.
(Arthur gets mad and walks out of the cafeteria)
(Arthur walks past Binky)
Binky: I know, that's a new shirt!
Arthur: Afraid not.
(Arthur is walking home covering his face with a coat.)

(Arthur arrives at his house, his father is raking leaves with D.W. sitting in them)
D.W.: Huh? (starts crying)
David Read: Huh? Arthur?
Arthur: Don't talk to me!
(Arthur looks at a mirror in his room. He takes off his glasses and his reflection becomes blurred.)

Arthur: Well it's better than being called four eyes!
Arthur: If I lose them, nobody can make me wear them!
(Arthur puts glasses into their case)
Arthur: I won't even know where they land!
(Arthur puts glasses into a slingshot, and shoots)
Arthur: Good riddance!
(The case with the glasses hits an electric wire, bounces off and land in Arthur's bed room next to Stanley, his teddy bear)
(Arthur goes up to his room, only to find the glasses on his bed)

Arthur: (gasps; groans in frustration) Ugh!
(Arthur takes the glasses and throws them out the window, they land in Mr. Read's pile of leaves.)
David: Huh?
(Arthur comes into the kitchen looking pleased. The he sees the case with the glasses on the table.)

Arthur: (gasps)
(Arthur has put his glasses on D.W.’s toy hammering bench and guides her hand with the hammer.)

Arthur: That's it, D.W.!
D.W.: (giggling)
(D.W. hits with the hammer, but misses the glasses)
Jane: What are you doing with your glasses?
Arthur: D.W. took them, mom! I was just getting them back!
Jane: Be careful with those. You wouldn’t want them to get broken.
Arthur: No, mom.
(D.W. hits Arthur's fingers with the hammer)
Arthur: Ouch!! (chuckles nervously)
(Arthur walks to school the next day with his glasses on. He goes behind a tree and comes out with no glasses)

Arthur: (chuckles)
(Arthur arrives at school. He and Buster pass Mr. Marco.)

Mr. Marco: Arthur, where are your glasses?
Arthur: I lost them. At home I think.
Arthur: It's harder than ever to see without my glasses.
Buster: Why don't you just wear 'em?
Arthur: I don't need them. I know this school at the back of my own hand.
Arthur: Boy's room is the third door from this corner, right?
Buster: Yeah.
Arthur: See, why do I need em?
Buster: See ya in class!
(Buster walks on. Arthur passes Mr. Marco who comes out of a door with Mr. Haney.
Mr. Haney: That's why I lock the exams, and...
Mr. Marco: Oh, well, the examination was better than I thought it would be. Still, in all, I think that we’re going to have to go over...    
(Arthur counts the doors but misses the one the teachers came out of.
Arthur: First door. Second. Third.
(Arthur walks into girl's room by mistake and sees Francine and Muffy talking to each other.)
Francine: I said, if I'm not batting cleanup, I'm not playing.
Arthur: Francine?!
Francine and Muffy: Aah!
Arthur, Muffy, and Francine: What are you doing in here?!
Francine: This is the girls' room! Get outta here!
Arthur: Hmm?
(The door hits Arthur in the back as Sue Ellen, Jenna and Maria come in. The door is seen from the outside.)
Girls: Augh! It's a boy! Get him out!
(Everybody hears the screaming and wonder what it is.)
Arthur: Get me out of here!!
(The girls run out. Arthur slowly follows and finds everybody staring at him.)
Arthur: Augh! (he drops his lunch box) Oh no....
(Arthur turns on the TV at home.)

Arthur: I'm just gonna have to get used to being a four-eyed weirdo...
( Bionic Bunny music plays)
Bionic Bunny (on TV): I'm Wilbur Rabbit. And this is the story of how we make the Bionic Bunny show! (He is holding up a car in the studio. He lets go and the car stays in place.) Em, what's my next line? (filmmaker puts glasses on his eyes similar to Arthur's so he can read the script)
Arthur: Wilbur Rabbit wears glasses just like mine? Alright!
(Francine meets Arthur in the hallway.)

Francine: Old four-eyes is back!
Arthur: Hi Francine!
Francine: Huh?
Binky: I know! You're wearing glasses!
Arthur: Yeah, I am!
Binky: Four-eyes (laughs)
Arthur: Binky? Did you know Wilbur Rabbit wears glasses?
Binky: Yeah I saw that on TV last night.
Francine: I didn't see that!
Binky: Yeah wasn't it great how they make him fly?
(In the classroom Mr. Marco is writing math problems on the blackboard.)

Francine: Don't ask me to read the problems to you! I need to concentrate.
Arthur: Okay.
(The kids are playing basketball in the gymnasium.)

Francine: Look out everybody, Arthur's got the ball.
(Arthur shoots and makes it, everyone cheers)
(In the classroom Mr. Marco hands back quizzes.)

Mr. Marco: Very good, Arthur! All correct!
Francine: Arthur! How would you like to play on my basketball team today?
(Francine shows Arthur her fake plastic glasses)
Francine: Do you like them?
Arthur: There's no glass.
Francine: They're my movie star glasses. Don't they make me look beautiful? Wilbur Rabbit wears glasses, you know.
Arthur: And his are just like mine!
(Back in the present day: Arthur and D.W. look at the photo album.)

Arthur: And since then, I always wore glasses. Does that solve your mystery?
D.W.: I guess... but it's not as good as having a lost brother.
(D.W. sees a picture of a much younger Jane and David dancing to disco.)
D.W.: Hey look! Who's this weird guy with mom?
Arthur: That's dad.
D.W.: Dad doesn't have a beard, Arthur. Maybe mom's divorced! I'm waking her up right now and demand an explanation!
Arthur: D.W.! D.W.! D.W.! (He runs after her.)