Title Card: Francine's Bad Hair Day
Introduction
The rat (who is revealed to be Mr. Ratburn in a later episode) addresses his class.

Class: (chatter)

Nigel Ratburn: Quiet down! Now as you may have heard - Buster, turn around, please - school pictures have just been scheduled...

Muffy: What? Now? I can't have my picture taken in these rags!

Mr. Ratburn: ...for next Thursday afternoon. That should give you plenty of time to change your clothes, Miss Crosswire.

Arthur addresses the camera.

Arthur: There are a few things you have to remember about school pictures.

Flashback: During the picture session Buster squirms on the stool.

Arthur (narrator): Like, it's not a good idea to drink six cans of soda and then have your picture taken.

Buster: (burps)

The photo shows him burping.

Flashback: Prunella scrapes her feet on the rug a couple of times.

Arthur (narrator): Or rub your feet across the carpet and sit in a metal chair.

Prunella sits down on the metal stool and gets a static electric shock, causing her hair to stand up..

Prunella: Aah!

Her picture is taken with her hair frazzled from the shock.

Flashback: Binky sits in the stool with a flower boutonnière in his lapel.

Arthur (narrator): Or wear a flower if you have allergies.

Binky: Ah-tchoo!

The picture shows him sneezing and falling backwards, knocking over the backdrop.



Title Card: Francine Bangs Gong
The third-graders are playing kickball against the fourth-graders. They huddle together.

Arthur: One more out and we've got them!

Buster: We'll never do it. They're fourth-graders.

Fourth-Graders: (Come on!)

Arthur: Remember the plan. No matter what, get the ball to Francine.

3rd Graders: Break!

They slap hands and run onto the field. Arthur is the pitcher.

Third-Graders: (C'mon Arthur! You can do it!)

Arthur rolls the ball. Fourth-grader Billy kicks it.

Arthur: Whoaaaahhh!

The ball hits him in the face.

Francine: Watch it!

Francine is ready to catch.

Buster: I got it! I got it!

Buster runs into her and knocks her down.

Third-Graders: Aww...

Francine: (groans)

She gets up and picks up the ball.

Arthur: Go! Go!

Third-Graders: Come on! Go! You can do it!

Francine tags Billy out.

Billy: Ugh!

Buster: Youuuuu're out!

The third-graders run up to Francine and hug her.

Third-Graders: (cheer)

***

In the girls’ room Prunella, Sue Ellen and Muffy are standing in front of the mirror.

Prunella: My mother said I could get a new dress for picture day.

Muffy: I'm getting new shoes and a dress.

Francine comes in with dirty clothes.

Francine: We beat the fourth-graders! I tagged them and we won!

She washes her hands, and the water in the sink gets dirty from her soiled hands. Prunella looks shocked at this.

Prunella: So, anyway, we should compare dresses and make sure we're not wearing the same thing.

Muffy: What are you wearing?

Francine: To what?

Muffy + Sue Ellen + Prunella: School pictures!

Francine: Pictures? Who cares?

Prunella: Not you obviously.

Muffy: I think Francine will have the prettiest picture of all.

Francine: You do?

Muffy brushes Francine’s hair.

Muffy: Except for mine, of course.

Francine smiles at her reflection. She sees herself having beautiful long hair. In reality she has a knot.

Francine: Ow!

Muffy: It would take a lot of work, but... you could be a whole new Francine. We could even look like twins. Maybe.

Francine brushes her hair.

Francine Really? Nah.

Muffy: Leave it to me.

***

In her room Francine opens her closes and sports equipment falls out.

Francine: I told you I didn't have any dresses.

Muffy: What's that? Back there? (She takes out a pink dress and shows it to Francine.) Put it on!

Francine: I'll look stupid!

Muffy: Do you want a nice school picture or not? Trust me.

***

Francine looks at herself in the mirror wearing the pink dress over her normal clothes. Muffy examines the dress.

Muffy: See? It's perfect. Once you fix the little rip over here. Just have your mom run a needle over that. And now, for your hair.

Francine: What's wrong with my hair?

Muffy: A-hm! (She gets a brush. Francine sits on the toilet lid.) Close your eyes until I tell you to look.

Francine: But...

Muffy: Do it! (Francine closes her eyes and Muffy brushes her hair.) Okay, you can look now.

Francine’s hair now stands up in very odd braids. Muffy holds a hand mirror.

Francine: Ahhh!

Muffy: I don't get it. It always works for me.

Francine: Get me out of this!

She takes off the dress.

Muffy: Wait, I have an idea. (She takes out a cell phone and uses speed dial.) Hello? Flossie? This is Muffy.

Flossie (on phone): Ahh Muffy! My favorite little client! Oh, this is a treat!

Muffy: Can I bring a friend to my appointment? She really needs something special.

Flossie: You got it, kid.

Muffy: Well that's great. Thank you. She hangs up. It's all set. Meet me tomorrow afternoon at the Salon de Beauté.

Francine: The what??

***

The next day Muffy and Francine stand outside the Salon de Beauté.

Francine: You didn't say we were going to a beauty parlor!

Muffy: What'd you think it was? A pet shop?

Francine: No way am I going in there.

Muffy: I knew you'd chicken out. Luckily, I brought my secret weapon. (She takes a photograph out of her handbag showing a muddy Francine with horrible hair and a goofy smile.) Remember this? Last year's picture? Is this what you wanna look like?

Francine looks beaten.

Francine: Okay... okay.... you win.

They walk into the salon and are greeted by Flossie who kisses Muffy on the cheeks.

Flossie: Muffy! How positively brilliant to see you! Everyone, look who's here!

Three other hair stylists (two women and one man) come and lead Muffy away.

Hair Stylists: (Muffy! What a surprise! Fabulous!)

Flossie: And what have we here?

Francine looks shy.

Francine: Francine?

Flossie: Oh, that's right. Ah, well, we don't promise miracles. Not in your price range anyway. (She puts Francine in a chair and takes a picture, which appears on a computer screen. The picture changes to Francine in pharaoh’s clothes.) This is our Queen of the Nile look, very popular. No? (Francine covers her eyes.) Well then, let's try for something more au courant.

The picture changes to a beehive hairdo complete with artificial bees.

Francine: Don't you have anything more normal?

Flossie: If you insist. Ah, I have just the thing.

A beautiful long flowing hairdo comes up on the computer.

Francine: I'll take that, I guess. Only not too much hairspray.

Flossie: You got it, kid. She speaks into a microphone. One prom queen to go, extra curls, hold the sauce!

***

Flossie washes Francine’s hair.

Flossie: (hums as she combs and cuts the hair, puts curlers in it and puts it under a hair dryer.) And now, ma chérie, you will rest and wake up as the girl of your dreams.

She turns on the hair dryer. Francine falls asleep.

In her dream she walks on a runway in a sports stadium. She is wearing a dress and her long flowing hair goes down to her feet.

Announcer: Ladies and gentlemen, the moment you've all been waiting for. Let's hear it for Francine Frensky! Francine is sporting a brand new hairdo. The crowd is loving it.

The dress turns into a sports jersey.

Francine: Play ball!

Francine is catcher at kickball.

Announcer: She prepares herself for the opening pitch, as she takes her place behind the plate. And there's the pitch!

Arthur throws.

Arthur: (grunts) 

Francine shakes her head and her long hair entangles the fourth-grade bunny player and pulls him down.

Fourth-Grade Bunny: Huh? Ah!

Francine catches the ball.

Umpire: Strrrr-ike!

Announcer: What a dazzling play by Francine!

Later in the dream.

Announcer: It's the bottom of the third inning, Francine runs all the way to the outfield and returns the ball... (Francine runs to the outfield, catches the ball with her hair and passes to Arthur.) ...to Arthur who makes the catch!

Umpire: (removing his catchers' mask) You're out!

Later in the dream.

Announcer: It's the final play of the game! Francine races to beat the ball, she slides, and...

Francine slides into home. Her long hair touches home plate.

Umpire: Safe!

The third-graders carry Francine in celebration.

Announcer: Her new hairdo touches the plate just in time! What a game!

The dream ends. Francine still sits under the hair dryer.

Muffy: Francine? Francine!

***

The curlers have been removed. Francine’s hair is now curly and more voluminous, in a Jewfro style. She looks doubtful.

Muffy: So, what do you think?

Both girls look in the mirror. Muffy’s hair now falls free.

Francine: I knew it.

Flossy: Oh, if only she had hair like yours.

Muffy: I think it's great! Wait till you see how it looks with your dress!

She leads Francine away.

They walk to the counter where Flossie shows them the bill. Francine puts money on the counter.

Francine There goes my new soccer ball.

Muffy leads Francine out of the salon.

Muffy: Now, there are a few little things that you should know about hair care.

Francine gets her bike.

Muffy: What are you doing??

Francine: Riding my bike!

Muffy: I don't think so! Bicycles and curls do not mix!

Francine pushes her bike.

***

Francine stands in front of the mirror in her bedroom wearing her pink dress.

Muffy: See, I told you it was worth it! Now remember what I said; no swimming, no riding in convertibles, and wear protective headgear in the rain.

Francine smiles at her reflection. Her mom calls from another room.

Mrs. Frensky: Honey, Arthur called to remind you about the kickball game tomorrow. Don't forget to bring the ball!

Muffy: Oh, I forgot. Absolutely no kickball!

Francine: No way!

She falls backwards on her bed.

Muffy: And no lying down!

Francine: I can't do this! There's too many rules!

Muffy: Remember my secret weapon? Well, then?

She helps Francine up.

Francine: Okay.

***

Arthur and Buster kick and chase a ball of paper down a school corridor, laughing. But Muffy crushes the paper ball with her foot. She and Francine are wearing their new hairdo and Francine is wearing the pink dress.

Arthur + Buster: (horrified) Aaaah!

Francine: Do you like it?

Buster: No.

Francine: I wasn't asking you!

Arthur: Well...it's....

Buster: (ala Dr. Frankenstein) Aliiive! (makes a zombie-like face and pose)

Arthur + Buster: (laugh)

They roll on the floor laughing. The girls walk away.

Muffy: Oh, pretend you don't see them! Boys ruin everything!

***

In the school cafeteria Muffy, Francine and Sue Ellen sit at a table. Francine is about to bite into a sandwich.

Francine: (licks lips)

A hairpin flies out of her hair and flies between Buster’s ears.

Buster: Incoming! (Buster and Brain walk past Francine’s table) Was it an accident or does she look like that on purpose?

Brain: Probably a combination of gravitational pull and too much stress on the hair follicles.

Brain + Buster: (laugh)

Francine: You are gonna get it!

She is about to throw a bottle of ketchup at them.

Muffy: Francine, calm down!

Muffy holds Francine’s arm and ketchup squirts on Francine’s dress.

Francine: Ah!

Muffy: Aah! Now look what you did!

***

In the girls’ room Muffy cleans Francine’s dress with a paper towel. She puts a green bow tie over the remaining stain.

Muffy: There, you can't see a thing.

Francine: Yes you can! It's all over....

Muffy: Ahem! Now, if you just stay still until picture time, everything will be fine.

***

Arthur stands on the kickball pitch. Muffy, Francine and Prunella sit on a bench.

Arthur: What do you mean you can't play?!

Muffy: You heard her! She can't mess up her hair!

Arthur: Why?!

Francine is slouching.

Francine: I have to keep it nice for school pictures.

Arthur: But Francine, it's the fourth graders! They'll kill us if you don't play!

Muffy: Good! No slouching. Remember, good posture is the key to true beauty.

***

The game has started. Arthur talks to Buster.

Buster She's lost her mind! That's all!

Arthur And we're gonna lose the game!

Buster Ah, who needs Francine? We're just as good! (The ball flies past the two.) Hey! Oof!

They run into one another and fall down.

Fourth-Graders: (cheer)

The fourth-grade bunny from Francine’s fantasy runs past them. He stops for a moment.

Fourth-Grade Bunny: Can I help you find the ball?!

Francine: Come on you guys, get up!!

Muffy: Sit down!

Muffy and Prunella restrain Francine. A fourth-grader runs into home.

Francine: It's one to nothing.

The bunny player reaches home just as Jenna catches the ball.

Francine: Two to nothing!

Muffy: You have to get used to this Francine! If you want to look nice, no more kickball!

Prunella: It's just a silly game anyway. What's the point of running around in a circle and getting your shoes dirty? (A ball comes flying towards the girls.) Aaaaah!

Francine jumps up and grabs the ball.

Third-Graders: (cheer)

Francine runs over the field with the ball. Buster argues with the fourth-grade bunny.

Buster: She caught it and you're out!

Fourth-Grade Bunny: She wasn't even playing!

Francine is up to bat. Luke stands next to her.

Luke: Did you know there's a poodle on your head?

Francine: Yeah, and it does tricks too! Watch!

She kicks the ball.

Third-Graders: (cheer)

Francine runs around the infield and slides into home.

Francine: (grunts) Safe!

***

In the auditorium the photographer is taking a picture of Jenna. Buster, Arthur, Francine, Muffy and Prunella are waiting in line. Francine’s dress and hair are in a mess. Muffy tries to fix the hair with a blow dryer.

Muffy: How could you?!

Francine: I'm sick of being perfect! Besides, I like the way I used to look.

Photographer: Next!

Buster sits on the stool.

Buster: Remember me? I'm the one who burped!

On the photograph his eyes are closed.

Photographer: Next!

Arthur sits on the stool. The photograph is ruined by the flash reflections from his glasses. Muffy tries to hold Francine back.

Muffy: Listen to me! Don't go in there! You'll regret it forever!

Francine: You're making it worse!

Photographer: Next!

Francine shrugs off Muffy and sits down with a pleasant smile. Her photograph is nice except for the dirt and the messed-up hair.

Photographer: Next!

Muffy sits on the stool, fold her arms and pouts.

Muffy: Oh that Francine!

***

The photograph shows Muffy looking grumpy. She throws it in the trash in a school corridor.

Muffy: It's like my father says, "You get what you pay for!" And if I were you, I'd burn those and quick!

Francine: I sorta like them. See the smudge? I got it when I slid into home.

Arthur comes.

Arthur: Hey, wanna trade?

Muffy: Hers didn't come out. Technical difficulties.

Francine: I'll trade if you promise not to laugh!

Arthur: I won't if you won't!

Francine: Okay.

Arthur and Francine trade photos.

Arthur: I like it. Looks just like you!

Francine: So does yours.

Muffy: I give up Francine Frensky! I'm sorry to have to say this, but you'll never be like me!

She walks off.

Arthur: Kickball?

Francine: You bet!

They run out of the school towards the athletic fields as it fades out.